README.md, before:

# radiance

A datapack implementing a unique new alternative to Netherite armor focused on aesthetics.

## Intention

This datapack aims to provide a balanced, survival-friendly alternative to Netherite armor, including a unique obtaining method.

The focus on aesthetics revolves around allowing players to show their skins without sacrificing defense. This is done by compacting a typical end-game armor set into a single item which is retextured using a complementary resource pack.

### Balancing
Acquiring the new alternative, Radiance, requires significant effort. A player must defeat a customised Wither Skeleton, summoned by equipping a Wither Skeleton with a full set of highly-enchanted Netherite armor *(which is consumed on summon)*.

Summoning a customised Wandering Trader requires a Villager and a Diamond Chestplate, both of which are consumed on summon, as well as Phantom Membranes and Nether Stars used in trades to upgrade a Radiance.

Equipping a Radiance will forcibly unequip any other armor on the player, meaning that players can't stack the effects of Radiance with other armor. Additionally, the default Radiance also prevents players from equipping Elytra unless upgraded through the custom Wandering Trader.

Radiance provides the wearer with the highest Enchantment Protection Factor possible *(20)*, providing the wearer with damage reduction slightly below that of a full set of Protection IV Netherite armor. Additionally, Radiance provides the wearer with +4 Knockback Resistance *(same as a full set of Netherite Armor)*.

#### Health Data
Player health remaining after a hit on Hard difficulty from full health *(20.0)*:

| Armor                                  | Zombie *(unarmed)* | Enderman  | Vindicator *(Iron Axe)* |
| ---                                    | ---                | ---       | ---                     |
| Radiance                               | 19.1               |      17.9 | 16.1                    |
| Flight Netherite *(all Protection IV)* | 18.684093          | 16.621223 | 12.866212               |
| Full Netherite *(all Protection IV)*   | 19.61768           |  18.92648 | 17.50088                |

Note: regular Netherite armor calculates damage reduction using Armor, Armor Toughness, and Enchantment Protection Factor (EPF), whereas Radiance relies solely on EPF *(hence the value for flight Netherite v. Vindicator)*.

*Data obtained using a repeating command block set to `tellraw @p {"nbt":"Health","entity":"@p"}`*

## Guide
*This datapack was developed in 1.17 (`"pack_format": 7`) but should be compatible with versions using an equivalent or greater `pack_format`, barring major changes to commands/datapacks.*

1. Download:
    - [Repository as a `.zip`](https://github.com/itsschwer/gateways/archive/refs/heads/master.zip) *(Code > Download ZIP)*
    - [Release](https://github.com/itsschwer/gateways/releases) *(will need to unzip before installing into a save)*
2. Install into a save like any other datapack.
3. *(Optional)* Copy the bundled `radiance_visual` resource pack into `.minecraft/resourcepacks`
    - <mark>Vanilla Minecraft currently doesn't support using `CustomModelData` to override armor models [*(feedback post)*](https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/community/posts/360056255091-Custom-armor-models)</mark>, so the current options are to:
        - Make all Radiance render as a Golden Helmet when equipped *(default)*
        - Make all Golden Helmets render as a Radiance when equipped *(manually rename)*
            - In `radiance_visual/assets/minecraft/textures/models/armor/`, rename `radiance.png` to `gold_layer_1.png`
4. Open the advancement menu to the *Schwer* tab to view the intended hints.

## Mechanics

### Horned Wither Skeleton

### Horned Wandering Trader

Horned Wandering Trader is a custom Wandering Trader variant that can be visually identified by the End Rod protruding from their forehead.

Unemployed Villagers can be converted to Horned Wandering Traders by equipping one with a Diamond Chestplate named *Wanderer's Spirit* using a Dispenser. Both the Villager and the Diamond Chestplate are consumed in the process. A Horned Wandering Trader will despawn 6000 ticks *(5 minutes)* after it is summoned.

Horned Wandering Traders have the same trades as regular Wandering Trader offers, except the first two offers overwritten by the custom Radiance trades.

#### Custom Radiance Trades
| Buy | BuyB | Sell |
| --- | ---  | ---  |
| Radiance *(Unbreakable)* | Phantom Membrane (16) | Radiance *(+ Aether Affinity)* |
| Fragile Radiance | Nether Star (3) | Radiance *(Unbreakable)* |

### Radiance

## Functions
*Split between 'Available' (i.e. fine to call using `/function`) and 'Internal' (not intended to be called by `/function`).*

*Ordered alphabetically.*

### Available

#### `clear`
Removes the presence of this datapack by:
- Clearing the scheduled `tick` function
- Killing all Horned Wither Skeletons *(entities tagged `srd_horned`)*
- Killing all Horned Wandering Traders *(entities tagged `srd_trader`)*

Any existing Radiance items will remain *(though armor incompatibility will be inactive)*.

*Note that since it is possible that unloaded chunks contain tagged entities, this can't guarantee to completely remove the presence of this datapack (i.e. some Horned Wither Skeletons and Horned Wandering Traders may still exist).*

#### `give_aether_radiance`
Gives the target entity *(only succeeds for players)* a Radiance with Aether Affinity.

Not used internally.

#### `give_fragile_radiance`
Gives the target entity *(only succeeds for players)* a Fragile Radiance.

Called by `kill_horned_reward`, which is a reward function for hidden advancement `kill_horned_reward`.

#### `give_radiance`
Gives the target entity *(only succeeds for players)* a Radiance.

Not used internally.

#### `summon_horned`
Summons a Horned Wither Skeleton at the target location.

Called internally by `convert_horned`.

#### `summon_trader`
Summons a Horned Wandering Trader at the target location.

Horned Wandering Traders are summoned with default Wandering Trader offers, with the first two offers overwritten by the custom Radiance trades.

Called internally by `convert_trader`.

### Internal

#### `armor_check`
Checks all players equipped with Radiance for incompatible armor and calling `force_unequip_`\[`chest`/`legs`/`feet`\] on them as required.

Uses predicates which use tags `aether_radiance_incompatible` *(chainmail, iron, gold, diamond, and netherite | chestplates, leggings, and boots)* and `radiance_incompatible` *(`#aether_radiance_incompatible` and Elytra)*.

Run from `tick`.

#### `convert_horned`
Summons a Horned Wither Skeleton through `summon_horned`, replacing the target entity. Also handles conversion sound and particle effects.

Called by `tick` on Wither Skeletons that match the predicate `has_required_armor`.

#### `convert_trader`
Summons a Horned Wandering Trader through `summon_trader`, replacing the target entity. Also handles conversion sound and particle effects.

Called by `tick` on unemployed Villagers that are equipped with a Diamond Chestplate named *Wanderer's Spirit*.

#### `force_unequip_`\[`chest`/`legs`/`feet`\]
Forcibly unequips the specified armor slot of the target entity by copying the item into a new Item entity using `summon_copy` and replacing the slot with air.

Called by `armor_check` on players that match certain predicates *(refer to `armor_check`)*.

#### `kill_horned_reward`
A reward function called by hidden advancement `kill_horned_reward` that calls `give_fragile_radiance` for the recipient.

#### `load`
Sets up this datapack by starting the `tick` loop.

Called through Minecraft's *`load.json`*.

#### `summon_copy`
Summons a new Item entity and cuts the `Item` nbt from `schwer:srd_store`. Also sets the Item's `Owner` and `Thrower` to the target entity's UUID to control who can pick up the item and mimic normal item throwing respectively.

<mark>Note: the `Owner` tag appears to be ignored by non-players (untest with players), unsure if this is intentional Minecraft behaviour.</mark>

Called by `force_unequip_`\[`chest`/`legs`/`feet`\]

#### `tick`
The main update loop. Handles the conversion of Wither Skeletons to Horned Wither Skeletons and unemployed Villagers to Horned Wandering Traders, as well as Radiance armor checking.

Initialises from `load`.

## References
*(Roughly in personal use order)*
- [Minecraft Wiki](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Minecraft_Wiki)
    - *Used as a reference for various NBT data and commands*
- [Misode's Data Pack Generators](https://misode.github.io/)
    - *Used to help generate predicates and advancements*
- [MCStacker](https://mcstacker.net/)
    - *Used to generate `/summon` commands*
- [Minecraft UUID Converter](https://www.soltoder.com/mc-uuid-converter/)
    - *Used to convert the helmet attribute modifer UUID listed on the Minecraft Wiki from hyphenated hexadecimal to an int array*
- [Fabian Röling — Target specific inventory slot](https://gaming.stackexchange.com/questions/313567/how-can-i-test-for-a-player-wearing-specific-armor)
    - *Pointed me towards using `Inventory[{Slot:103b}]`*
- [Vanilla Tweaks — Golden Crown](https://vanillatweaks.net/picker/resource-packs/)
    - *Used to set up the resource pack structure*
- [BronGhast014 — How to use Custom Model Data in Minecraft!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HrFMdcjonyo)
    - *Used to learn how to create model overrides*

Commit message:

Complete horned wither skeleton documentation

README.md, after:

# radiance

A datapack implementing a unique new alternative to Netherite armor focused on aesthetics.

## Intention

This datapack aims to provide a balanced, survival-friendly alternative to Netherite armor, including a unique obtaining method.

The focus on aesthetics revolves around allowing players to show their skins without sacrificing defense. This is done by compacting a typical end-game armor set into a single item which is retextured using a complementary resource pack.

### Balancing
Acquiring the new alternative, Radiance, requires significant effort. A player must defeat a customised Wither Skeleton, summoned by equipping a Wither Skeleton with a full set of highly-enchanted Netherite armor *(which is consumed on summon)*.

Summoning a customised Wandering Trader requires a Villager and a Diamond Chestplate, both of which are consumed on summon, as well as Phantom Membranes and Nether Stars used in trades to upgrade a Radiance.

Equipping a Radiance will forcibly unequip any other armor on the player, meaning that players can't stack the effects of Radiance with other armor. Additionally, the default Radiance also prevents players from equipping Elytra unless upgraded through the custom Wandering Trader.

Radiance provides the wearer with the highest Enchantment Protection Factor possible *(20)*, providing the wearer with damage reduction slightly below that of a full set of Protection IV Netherite armor. Additionally, Radiance provides the wearer with +4 Knockback Resistance *(same as a full set of Netherite Armor)*.

#### Health Data
Player health remaining after a hit on Hard difficulty from full health *(20.0)*:

| Armor                                  | Zombie *(unarmed)* | Enderman  | Vindicator *(Iron Axe)* |
| ---                                    | ---                | ---       | ---                     |
| Radiance                               | 19.1               |      17.9 | 16.1                    |
| Flight Netherite *(all Protection IV)* | 18.684093          | 16.621223 | 12.866212               |
| Full Netherite *(all Protection IV)*   | 19.61768           |  18.92648 | 17.50088                |

Note: regular Netherite armor calculates damage reduction using Armor, Armor Toughness, and Enchantment Protection Factor (EPF), whereas Radiance relies solely on EPF *(hence the value for flight Netherite v. Vindicator)*.

*Data obtained using a repeating command block set to `tellraw @p {"nbt":"Health","entity":"@p"}`*

## Guide
*This datapack was developed in 1.17 (`"pack_format": 7`) but should be compatible with versions using an equivalent or greater `pack_format`, barring major changes to commands/datapacks.*

1. Download:
    - [Repository as a `.zip`](https://github.com/itsschwer/gateways/archive/refs/heads/master.zip) *(Code > Download ZIP)*
    - [Release](https://github.com/itsschwer/gateways/releases) *(will need to unzip before installing into a save)*
2. Install into a save like any other datapack.
3. *(Optional)* Copy the bundled `radiance_visual` resource pack into `.minecraft/resourcepacks`
    - <mark>Vanilla Minecraft currently doesn't support using `CustomModelData` to override armor models [*(feedback post)*](https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/community/posts/360056255091-Custom-armor-models)</mark>, so the current options are to:
        - Make all Radiance render as a Golden Helmet when equipped *(default)*
        - Make all Golden Helmets render as a Radiance when equipped *(manually rename)*
            - In `radiance_visual/assets/minecraft/textures/models/armor/`, rename `radiance.png` to `gold_layer_1.png`
4. Open the advancement menu to the *Schwer* tab to view the intended hints.

## Mechanics

### Horned Wither Skeleton

Horned Wither Skeleton is a custom Wither Skeleton variant that can be visually identified by the End Rod protruding from their forehead and lack of weapon.

Horned Wither Skeletons have increased health *(100/20)*, follow range *(24/16)*, movement speed *(0.3/0.25)*, and attack damage *(20/4)*, as well as higher knockback resistance *(0.6)*. Additionally, the do not despawn naturally.

Horned Wither Skeletons do not drop anything, however, defeating one grants the killer the hidden advancement `kill_horned_reward`. This advancement rewards the recipient with a Fragile Radiance. Note that since this is an advancement reward, it is only obtainable through player kills.

Wither Skeletons can be converted to Horned Wither Skeletons by equipping them with highly-enchanted Netherite armor *(as specified by the predicate `has_required_armor`)*.

#### Required Enchantments *(any order)*

| Netherite Helmet | Netherite Chestplate | Netherite Leggings | Netherite Boots    |
| ---              | ---                  | ---                | ---                |
| Unbreaking III   | Unbreaking III       | Unbreaking III     | Unbreaking III     |
| Mending          | Mending              | Mending            | Mending            |
| Protection IV    | Protection IV        | Protection IV      | Protection IV      |
| Respiration III  |                      |                    | Feather Falling IV |
| Aqua Affinity    |                      |                    | Depth Strider III  |
|                  |                      |                    | Soul Speed III     |

### Horned Wandering Trader

Horned Wandering Trader is a custom Wandering Trader variant that can be visually identified by the End Rod protruding from their forehead.

Unemployed Villagers can be converted to Horned Wandering Traders by equipping one with a Diamond Chestplate named *Wanderer's Spirit* using a Dispenser. Both the Villager and the Diamond Chestplate are consumed in the process. A Horned Wandering Trader will despawn 6000 ticks *(5 minutes)* after it is summoned.

Horned Wandering Traders have the same trades as regular Wandering Trader offers, except the first two offers overwritten by the custom Radiance trades.

#### Custom Radiance Trades
| Buy | BuyB | Sell |
| --- | ---  | ---  |
| Radiance *(Unbreakable)* | Phantom Membrane (16) | Radiance *(+ Aether Affinity)* |
| Fragile Radiance | Nether Star (3) | Radiance *(Unbreakable)* |

### Radiance

## Functions
*Split between 'Available' (i.e. fine to call using `/function`) and 'Internal' (not intended to be called by `/function`).*

*Ordered alphabetically.*

### Available

#### `clear`
Removes the presence of this datapack by:
- Clearing the scheduled `tick` function
- Killing all Horned Wither Skeletons *(entities tagged `srd_horned`)*
- Killing all Horned Wandering Traders *(entities tagged `srd_trader`)*

Any existing Radiance items will remain *(though armor incompatibility will be inactive)*.

*Note that since it is possible that unloaded chunks contain tagged entities, this can't guarantee to completely remove the presence of this datapack (i.e. some Horned Wither Skeletons and Horned Wandering Traders may still exist).*

#### `give_aether_radiance`
Gives the target entity *(only succeeds for players)* a Radiance with Aether Affinity.

Not used internally.

#### `give_fragile_radiance`
Gives the target entity *(only succeeds for players)* a Fragile Radiance.

Called by `kill_horned_reward`, which is a reward function for hidden advancement `kill_horned_reward`.

#### `give_radiance`
Gives the target entity *(only succeeds for players)* a Radiance.

Not used internally.

#### `summon_horned`
Summons a Horned Wither Skeleton at the target location.

Called internally by `convert_horned`.

#### `summon_trader`
Summons a Horned Wandering Trader at the target location.

Horned Wandering Traders are summoned with default Wandering Trader offers, with the first two offers overwritten by the custom Radiance trades.

Called internally by `convert_trader`.

### Internal

#### `armor_check`
Checks all players equipped with Radiance for incompatible armor and calling `force_unequip_`\[`chest`/`legs`/`feet`\] on them as required.

Uses predicates which use tags `aether_radiance_incompatible` *(chainmail, iron, gold, diamond, and netherite | chestplates, leggings, and boots)* and `radiance_incompatible` *(`#aether_radiance_incompatible` and Elytra)*.

Run from `tick`.

#### `convert_horned`
Summons a Horned Wither Skeleton through `summon_horned`, replacing the target entity. Also handles conversion sound and particle effects.

Called by `tick` on Wither Skeletons that match the predicate `has_required_armor`.

#### `convert_trader`
Summons a Horned Wandering Trader through `summon_trader`, replacing the target entity. Also handles conversion sound and particle effects.

Called by `tick` on unemployed Villagers that are equipped with a Diamond Chestplate named *Wanderer's Spirit*.

#### `force_unequip_`\[`chest`/`legs`/`feet`\]
Forcibly unequips the specified armor slot of the target entity by copying the item into a new Item entity using `summon_copy` and replacing the slot with air.

Called by `armor_check` on players that match certain predicates *(refer to `armor_check`)*.

#### `kill_horned_reward`
A reward function called by hidden advancement `kill_horned_reward` that calls `give_fragile_radiance` for the recipient.

#### `load`
Sets up this datapack by starting the `tick` loop.

Called through Minecraft's *`load.json`*.

#### `summon_copy`
Summons a new Item entity and cuts the `Item` nbt from `schwer:srd_store`. Also sets the Item's `Owner` and `Thrower` to the target entity's UUID to control who can pick up the item and mimic normal item throwing respectively.

<mark>Note: the `Owner` tag appears to be ignored by non-players (untest with players), unsure if this is intentional Minecraft behaviour.</mark>

Called by `force_unequip_`\[`chest`/`legs`/`feet`\]

#### `tick`
The main update loop. Handles the conversion of Wither Skeletons to Horned Wither Skeletons and unemployed Villagers to Horned Wandering Traders, as well as Radiance armor checking.

Initialises from `load`.

## References
*(Roughly in personal use order)*
- [Minecraft Wiki](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Minecraft_Wiki)
    - *Used as a reference for various NBT data and commands*
- [Misode's Data Pack Generators](https://misode.github.io/)
    - *Used to help generate predicates and advancements*
- [MCStacker](https://mcstacker.net/)
    - *Used to generate `/summon` commands*
- [Minecraft UUID Converter](https://www.soltoder.com/mc-uuid-converter/)
    - *Used to convert the helmet attribute modifer UUID listed on the Minecraft Wiki from hyphenated hexadecimal to an int array*
- [Fabian Röling — Target specific inventory slot](https://gaming.stackexchange.com/questions/313567/how-can-i-test-for-a-player-wearing-specific-armor)
    - *Pointed me towards using `Inventory[{Slot:103b}]`*
- [Vanilla Tweaks — Golden Crown](https://vanillatweaks.net/picker/resource-packs/)
    - *Used to set up the resource pack structure*
- [BronGhast014 — How to use Custom Model Data in Minecraft!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HrFMdcjonyo)
    - *Used to learn how to create model overrides*
